# Problem 1 (40 pts)

:CUSTOM<sub>ID</sub>: problem-1-40-pts


## Part 1 - 10 pts

Suppose you would like to simulate the experiment of flipping a coin that gives head with probability $p$ and tail with probability $1-p$. Write a function that simulate this coin flipping experiment.

**Note**: Your function shoud take $p$ as input and return either "head" or "tail".


## Part 2 - 10 pts

Specify a value of $p$, say $0.3$, create a list that contains 1000 flips of such coin. Use the list, create a barplot for "head" and "tail". Does the number of heads and tails make sense for the $p$ you specify?


## Part 3 - 20 pts

The number of head in 1 flip is actually the so-called Bernoulli random variable with parameter $p$, which is a special case of the Binomial variable $Bin(1, p)$. For Bernoulli and Binomial random variables, we have the following relationship:

If $X_1$, $X_2$, $\dots$, $X_n$ are independent Bernoulli random variable from $Bernoulli(p)$, then $\sum_{i=1}^n X_i \sim Bin(n, p)$.

Now, use the function you write in part 1, create another function that return the number of head in $n$ flips, which is a Binomial random variable.

**Note**: Your function should take 2 arguments as inputs ($n$, $p$), and return the number of head in $n$ flips.


# Problem 2 (20 pts)

:CUSTOM<sub>ID</sub>: problem-2-20-pts

Suppose there is 365 days, denote 1-365, in a year and the chance of getting born in each day is the same. Write a function to generate a birthday for a random person, using the `random.uniform` method from the `numpy` package.

**Note**: The birthday of a random person is a discrete random variable that has the following distribution

| Birthday ($xᵢ$) | $P$             |
|--------------- |--------------- |
| 1               | $\frac{1}{365}$ |
| 2               | $\frac{1}{365}$ |
| 3               | $\frac{1}{365}$ |
| 4               | $\frac{1}{365}$ |
| &#x2026;        | &#x2026;        |
| 363             | $\frac{1}{365}$ |
| 364             | $\frac{1}{365}$ |
| 365             | $\frac{1}{365}$ |


# Problem 3 (25 pts)

:CUSTOM<sub>ID</sub>: problem-3-25-pts

In the previous homework, we have seen the standard Cauchy distribution with the following pdf (f):

$$f(x) = \frac{1}{\pi(1+x^2)}, \text{ for } x\in \mathbb{R}.$$

The distribution function (F) of Cauchy distribution is given by:

$$F(x) = \frac{1}{2}+\frac{1}{\pi}arc tan\left(x\right).$$


## part 1 - 5 pts

Using the distribution function given above, code its inverse function $F^{-1}(u)$ and test it with `u` taking values of the list `[0, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1]`.

$$F^{-1}(u)=tan(\pi(u-0.5))$$


## part 2 - 10 pts

Using the inversion method we covered in the class, and assuming we can generate $U\sim Uniform(0,1)$ (use `random.uniform()` from `numpy`), write a function `random_cauchy` that generate random variable from the standard Cauchy distribution. Set `np.random.seed(2255)` and run your function.

**Note**: 1. Your function does not have to have an input, but it needs to return a standard Cauchy random variable as output. 2. In your function, you should not use any form of random.cauchy function from other package. But you are welcome to use them to check if your function is correct.


## part 3 - 10 pts

Write a function `random_cauchy1` that generate random variable from the standard Cauchy distribution assuming the explicit form of $F^{-1}$ is **not given**. In this case, you need to evaluate $F^{-1}(u)$ numerically. Again, assume we can generate $U\sim Uniform(0,1)$ (use `random.uniform()` from `numpy`). Set `np.random.seed(2255)` and run your function.

**Note**: 1. Your function does not have to have an input, but it needs to return a Cauchy random variable as output. 2. In your function, you should not use any form of random.cauchy function from other package. But you are welcome to use them to check if your function is correct.


# Problem 4 (25 pts)

:CUSTOM<sub>ID</sub>: problem-4-25-pts

In the lecture, we discussed how to generate normal random variable using the Laplace distribution. In this problem, we will see how to generate normal random variable using the rejection method and the standard Cauchy distribution.

In this context, since we want to generate random variable from standard normal distribution, so we have the target density $f$

$$f(x) = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}}e^{-\frac{x^2}{2}}, x\in \mathbb{R}.$$

The instrumental density function $g$ is

$$g(x) = \frac{1}{\pi(1+x^2)}, x\in \mathbb{R}.$$


## part 1 - 5 pts

To make the rejection method work, we need to find a constant $c$, such that

$$f(x) \le cg(x) \text{ for all } x \in \mathbb{R}.$$

Also, we mentioned we want to specify $c$ such that:

$$c = \text{sup}_x \frac{f(x)}{g(x)}.$$

Verify that $c = \sqrt{\frac{2\pi}{e}}\approx 1.520347$.

**Note**: You can do this analytically or numerically.


## part 2 - 10 pts

Using $c$ you find in part 4.1 and `randon_cauchy` you wrote in Problem 3, write a function to implement the rejection method to generate a standard normal random variable. Again, assume we can generate $U\sim Uniform(0,1)$ (use `random.uniform()` from numpy). Set `np.random.seed(2255)` and run your function.

**Note**: 1. Your function does not have to have an input, but it needs to return a standard nornal random variable as output. 2. In your function, you should not use any form of random.normal function from other package. But you are welcome to use them to check if your function is correct. 3. In case you stuck on Problem 3, you can use `random.standard_cauchy(size = 1)` function from numpy package to get a random variable from the standard Cauchy distribution.


## part 3 - 10 pts

Generate 5000 standard normal random variable using the function you defined in part 4.2. Generate another 5000 standard normal random variable using `np.random.normal`. Make 2 histograms overlay with each other to see if they are close. In addition, generate a normal qq plot using the 5000 normal random variables from your function. Comment on the plots. **Set the random seed as 2255 before generating random numbers**.
