Do not use any external modules on this assignment


# Problem 1 (30pts)

For this problem, you will create a **Point** class that can be used to generated any point in the cartesian coordinate. The followings are the attributes and methods that should be implemented in the **Point**:

-   `__init__` (already done): To initialize a point object, you need to specify the x and y coordinates and assign to `self.x` and `self.y` attributes.
-   Comparators methods:
    -   Support the comparators < (`__lt__`), >(`__gt__`), and `==(=__eq__`).
    -   p1 is less than p2 if its distance from the origin is less.
    -   p1 is greater than p2 if its distance from the origin is greater.
    -   p1 and p2 are equal if they are the same distance from the origin.
-   `dist_from_origin` method:
    -   Returns the Cartesian distance of this point from the origin

```python
class Point:
    def __init__(self, x, y):
        self.x = x
        self.y = y
```


# Problem 2 (50pts)

We have seen how to construct the **CheckingAccount** in the class. In this problem, you will construct the **SavingAccount**. Similar to the CheckingAccount class, since SavingAccount **is a** Account, so it should have all the attributes and methods defined for Account class. In addition, it should also have it's unique attributes and methods:

-   The `interest_rate` for saving account is 10%.
-   The minimum for saving account is 1000.
-   Since rewards of a savings account were greater than those of a checking account, the bank allowed only one withdrawal from a savings account.
-   When customer close the account, to reward the savings account owners, the bank added additional bonus of 15% (calculated off of the minimum amount held throughout the year) PLUS a fixed amount of 100 . Hence, for example, if the holdings were, 1000, 800, 1200, the owner of a savings account got 1200 + 800 x 0.1 + 800 x 0.15 + 100 = 1500.


## Requirements:

Your SavingAccount class should satisfy the followings:

-   `__init__`:
    -   To initialize a SavingAccount object, we need to specify (Already done):
        -   `initial_amount`
        -   `max_num_withdrawals` (default: 1)
        -   `minimum` (default: 1000)
        -   `interest_rate` (default: 0.1)
        -   `bonus_contribution` (default: 0.15)
    -   Inherit all the attributes and methods from its super class Account (Already done).
    -   Additional attributes that are unique to SavingAccount:
        -   `self._num_withdrawals` (set to 0 when initializing)
        -   `self._max_num_withdrawals`
        -   `self._bonus_contribution`
-   `get_num_withdrawals` method:
    -   Return the number of withdrawals.
-   `withdraw` method:
    -   Override the withdraw method from its super class.
-   `add_bonus` method:
    -   Increase the amount held by (percent bonus contribution) \* (minimal amount ever held) + 100.
-   `close_account` method:
    -   Override the `close_account` method from its super class.


## Remark

-   import uuid module using `import uuid`.
-   import Account class from the module named "Account" using `from Account import Account` (Make sure to put the Account.py file in the same folder as your homeowork file).
-   Use the following structure to design you **SavingAccount** class. The comments are served as instructions for each methods. Use those instructions and insert you code right below each comment.

```python
import uuid
from Account import Account
class SavingAccount(Account):
    def __init__(self, initial_amount, max_num_withdrawals=1,
                 minimum=1000, interest_rate=0.10,
                 bonus_contribution=0.15):
        super().__init__(initial_amount, minimum, interest_rate)

        # 1) Set the number of withdrawals to 0 (only SavingsAccounts track the number
        #    of withdrawals

        # 2) Set the _max_num_withdrawals attribute to the value given in the argument
        #    of the constructor

        # 3) Set the _bonus_contribution to the value given in the argument of
        #    the constructor

    def get_num_withdrawals(self):
        # Simply return the number of withdrawals


    def withdraw(self, w_amount):
        # 1) If the number of withdrawals is >= than the maximal number of
        #    withdrawals allowed throw and exception:
        #    raise ValueError("Savings accounts allow only {} withdrawals.".format(self._max_num_withdrawals))

        # 2) Increase the withdrawal counter by 1

        # 3) Call the parent's implementation of withdraw as it does the rest of
        #    things for us


    def add_bonus(self):
        # According to the banks rewards scheme, increase the amount held by the
        # (percent bonus contribution) * (minimal amount ever held) + 100


    def close_account(self):
        # 1) Add bonus

        # 2) Call the parent's close_account method as it does lots of stuff already
                                              
```
