# Problem 1


## (a) 5 pts

Create a numpy array that contains all the integers larger than or equal to 501 and smaller than or equal to 600 that are divisible by 5.


## (b) 5 pts

Create a numpy array that contains all the odd integers between 501 and 600 (inclusive) that are divisible by 3.


## (c) 5 pts

Create a numpy array that contains all the integers >=501 and <=600 that are divisible by both 6 and 9.


# Problem 2

Define 2 numpy arrays such that

```python
arr1 = np.arange(1, 101)
arr2 = np.array([2, 3, 3, 4, 4, 5, 5, 5, 6, 6])
```


## (a) 5 pts

Cast arr1 to a numpy array of type float64.


## (b) 5 pts

Print the dimensions and numbers of elements in arr1 and arr2.


## (c) 5 pts

Create a numpy array that consists of the first $n$ positive integers, i.e., 1, 2, 3, &#x2026;, n, and calculate $$S=\sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{n}\frac{6}{i^2}}$$ for $n=10^7$. Do the same by creating a List without using numpy, and compare the times of using the two approaches.


## (d) 5 pts

For the array `arr3` created using the following code,

```python
np.random.seed(2255)
arr3 = 4 * np.random.standard_normal(10)
```

return the fractional parts as `f` and integral part as `h`. Convert `f` and `h` to arrays of floats32 and int32, respectively. Check the memory usage of `f` and `h`, and the arrays with the converted types. You can use `.nbytes` to check the memory useage, e.g., `f.nbytes`.


# Problem 3

Use the same **data.csv** file in the previous homework for this problem.


## (a) 5 pts

The `genfromtxt` function from numpy can read data from the disk. Use it to read the data from **data.csv** to a variable `dat` and show the data type of its elements.


## (b) 5 pts

Create an numpy array `dat1` using the first 10 and last 53 elements of `dat`.


## (c) 5 pts

Reshape `dat1` to a matrix of 7 rows and 9 columns, name it `datm`. Calculate the column sum and the row sum, and the sum of all elements, of `datm`.


## (d) 5 pts

Replace the elements in `datm` that are larger than 3 by 3 and the elements smaller than 1 by 0.


## (e) 5 pts

What is the number of elements in `datm` from the previous problem that have zero reminder.


## (f) 10 pts

Let $X$ be the matrix consisting of the first 7 columns of `datm` and $Y$ be the matrix consisting of the last 2 columns of `datm`. Calculate $X^{-1}Y$.


## (g) 10 pts

For the `X` and `error` created with the following code,

```python
np.random.seed(2255)
n, p = 1000, 7
X = np.random.standard_normal((n, p))
error = np.random.standard_normal(n)
```

create $Y$ from equation $$Y = X \beta + error$$ where $\beta=(1, 1, 2, 3, 2, 1, 1)'$. Calculate the least squares estimator of $\beta$ defined as $$b=(X'X)^{-1}X'Y$$


## (e) 20 pts

Repeat the least squares simulation in the previous step for $R=1000$ times. At each repetition, generate a new `X`, `error`, and `Y`, but generate `X` with `np.random.multivariate_normal(mu, Sigma, n)`, where `mu` and `Sigma` are created with the following code. Calculate the least squares estimates for all repetitions and save them as rows of an array `result` with $R$ rows and 7 columns.

1.  Calculate the variances for the 7 columns of `result`. This is using a simulation to estimate the variance of the least squares estimator. Remember to set the random seed with `np.random.seed(2255)` in the beginning of the code.
2.  Obtain the diagonal elements the inverse of `Sigma` divided by $n$, i.e., $$\frac{\text{Sigma}^{-1}}{n}.$$ Compare the results with the variances from the previous step. You may try increase or decrease $R$ to see how the comparison changes.

```python
n, p = 100, 7
mu = np.zeros(p)
rho = 0.5
Sigma = np.zeros((p, p))
for i in range(p):
    for j in range(p):
        Sigma[i, j] = (i+1) * (j+1) * rho ** abs(i - j)
```
